CC API docs updates for new plans/spec (#18931)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md

The Cloud API is a [REST interface](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) that allows you programmatic access to manage the lifecycle of clusters within your organization.

> This document covers the `latest` version (`2024-09-16`) of the API's `v1` endpoints. For for more detailed coverage of API endpoints for this version and prior verisons, refer to the [API reference documentation](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1). 

Reviewer: Despite the annoyance of the included the date, including the `Cc-Version` header set with the correct version would go along ways in helping our customers remember to pass it in.  At some point we'll likely start requiring it.  Maybe we can use a partial to make them easy to replace?

</section>

> Where `{secret_key}` is the secret key string you stored when you [created the API key in the Console]({% link cockroachcloud/managing-access.md %}#create-api-keys).

Reviewer 2: Separately, I think we should remove all the `raw` sections and only show `curl`, then we don't need to maintain the `<section>`s at all.

## Set the API version

> 

Reviewer 2: This is out of sync with https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/18918, can you please review that so this PR will benefit from it?

curl --request POST \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}' \

>   --data '{"name":"{cluster_name}","provider":"{cloud_provider}","plan":"STANDARD","spec":{"serverless":{"regions":["{region_name}"],"usage_limits":{"provisioned_virtual_cpus":"2"}}}}'

Reviewer: We've switched to using `--json` in the generated api docs.  If you want to keep using `--data`, you should include a content type header that is set to `"application/json"`.

{
  "name": "{cluster_name}",
  "provider": "{cloud_provider}",
  "plan": "STANDARD",
  "spec": {
    "serverless": {
      "regions": [
        "{region_name}"
      ],
      "usage_limits": {

>         "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "2"

Reviewer: @mdlinville I think you're confusing `provisioned_virtual_cpus` with the Dedicated Hardware config field `num_virtual_cpus`.   It doesn't look like `provisioned_virtual_cpus` has any such restrictions.  @andy-kimball are all positive values valid here?

{
  "name": "notorious-moose",
  "provider": "GCP",

>   "plan": "STANDARD",

Reviewer 2: You don't need this entire example if you take my suggestion to remove the `raw` sections and thus remove the filter-tabs.

  "spec": {
    "serverless": {
      "regions": [
        "us-central1"
      ],
      "usage_limits": {

>         "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "2"

Reviewer 2: As above, we should show 4 vCPUs in these examples, as the recommended minimum for Prod and the absolute minimum for Azure.

~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="raw">

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ json
{
  "name": "{cluster_name}",
  "provider": "{cloud_provider}",
  "plan": "STANDARD",
  "spec": {
    "serverless": {
      "regions": [
        "{region_name}"
      ],
      "usage_limits": {
        "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "2"
      }
    }
  }
}
~~~

</section>

Where:

  - `{cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster. The name must be 6-20 characters in length and can include numbers, lowercase letters, and dashes (but no leading or trailing dashes).
  - `{cloud_provider}` is the name of the cloud provider on which you want your cluster to run: `AWS`, `AZURE`, or `GCP`.
  - `{region_name}` is the name of a CockroachDB Cloud [region]({% link cockroachcloud/regions.md %}). Region names are set by the cloud provider. For example,`us-west2` is a GCP region. Available regions vary based on both the selected plan type (`BASIC`, `STANDARD`, or `ADVANCED`) and the cloud provider.
  - `plan` is the cluster's plan, `BASIC`, `STANDARD`, or `ADVANCED`. The default is `STANDARD`.

>   - The `usage_limits` field specifies the resource limits for the cluster. The `provisioned_virtual_cpus` field indicates the maximum number of virtual CPUs (vCPUs) the cluster can provision.

Reviewer 3: I think a bit better would be:
"the number of virtual CPUs (vCPUs) the cluster provides."

Author: Updated to use this language. Thanks.

      ],
      "usage_limits": {
        "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "2"
      }
    }
  }
}
~~~

</section>

If the request was successful, the API returns information about the new cluster.

For details about returned fields, refer to the [response example and schema](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#post-/api/v1/clusters) in the API reference.

### Create an Advanced cluster

To create a cluster, send a `POST` request to the `/v1/clusters` endpoint.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
The service account associated with the secret key must have the Cluster Administrator or Cluster Creator [role]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#organization-user-roles).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<div class="filters clearfix">
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="curl"><strong>curl</strong></button>
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="raw"><strong>Raw</strong></button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="curl">

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request POST \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}' \

>   --json '{"name":"{cluster_name}","provider":"{cloud_provider}","plan":"ADVANCED","spec":{"dedicated":{"region_nodes":{"{region_name}":3},"hardware":{"machine_spec":{"machine_type":"{machine_type}"}},"cockroach_version":"{version}"}}}'

Reviewer 3: We should not be encouraging users to use `machine_spec` with Advanced. Instead, we should be pointing them towards `num_virtual_cpus`.

Author: Done

> {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer 2: I think this is the response so it should not be copyable. I'm actually not even sure we need to show the response since the API spec has it already. WDYT?

> {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer 2: Again, this is output so it should not be copyable, if we even need to show it.

        "{region_name}": 3
      },
      "hardware": {

>         "num_virtual_cpus": {num_cpus}

Reviewer 3: The `num_virtual_cpus` needs to be within the `machine_spec` section.

Author: Thanks. Fixing via https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/18951; ready for review.

  - `{cluster_id}` is the cluster ID returned after creating the cluster.
  {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

>   The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).

Author: Removed all unnecessary 'copy' includes.

- `{region_name}` is the cloud infrastructure provider region where the cluster is located.
- `{status}` is the status of the node. Possible values are: `LIVE` and `NOT_READY`.

> ## Change resource limits for a Basic cluster

Author: @mdlinville The changes you'd make for Basic are RU or storage limits, that's why I broadened to "resource limits"; I can be more clear in the heading and mention both limits.

> To set or update the maximum RU or storage limits for a cluster, send a `PATCH` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To set or update the maximum RU or storage limits for a cluster, send a `PATCH` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` endpoint with an updated `serverless.usage_limits` field.
```

  - `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.
  {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

>   The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).

Reviewer 2: This is used so many times in this page that it is worth assigning it to a Liquid variable at the top and then using that everywhere. It will be less brittle to add it to the various different contexts and get the indentation right.

Author: Adding this to follow-up review

  {{site.data.alerts.end}}
  - `{secret_key}` is the secret key for the service account.

>   - `storage_mib_limit` is the maximum number of Mebibytes of storage that the cluster can have at any time during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is throttled, where only one SQL connection is allowed at a time, with the expectation that it is used to delete data to reduce storage usage. It is an error for this value to be zero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `storage_mib_limit`: Applies only to Basic. the maximum number of MiB of storage that the cluster can consume at any time during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is throttled, where only one SQL connection is allowed at a time, with the expectation that it is used to delete data to reduce storage usage. It is an error for this value to be zero.
```
I know you copied what is in the API, but I think we use"MiB" way more often than "Mebibytes" or whatever the word is for GiB in the docs.

Author: Used the MiB suggestion and have->use; not mentioning Basic because it's in the Basic section.

>   - `storage_mib_limit` is the maximum number of Mebibytes of storage that the cluster can have at any time during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is throttled, where only one SQL connection is allowed at a time, with the expectation that it is used to delete data to reduce storage usage. It is an error for this value to be zero.

Reviewer 2: You are missing `provisioned_cpu`, which applies only to Standard. See the schema for `serverless { usage_limits {`: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#post-/api/v1/clusters

Author: Outdated comment; we are good

>   - `request_unit_limit` is the maximum number of request units that the cluster can consume during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is disabled until the limit is increased, or until the beginning of the next month when more request units are granted. It is an error for this to be zero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `request_unit_limit`: Applies only to Basic. The maximum request units that the cluster can consume during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is disabled until the limit is increased, or until the beginning of the next month when more request units are granted. It is an error for this to be zero.
```

> If the request was successful, the client will not receive a response payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the request is successful, the command returns no response.
```

This phrasing occurs several times in the file.

Reviewer: `command returns no response` is technically incorrect. How about we reference the response code here?   For example, "a successful response will return a 200 code despite the response body being empty" or something like that.  Also, is this for a PATCH on `https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` ?  That should return a body.  Does it not?

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> The previously deprecated `spend_limit` field has been removed. Use the `usage_limits` field instead to set resource limits for the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `spend_limit` field, which was deprecated in Serverless, is not supported on Basic or Standard. Instead, use `usage_limits`.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Change provisioned vCPUs for a Standard cluster

> To update the provisioned vCPUs for a cluster, send a `PATCH` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update the provisioned vCPUs for a cluster, send a `PATCH` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` endpoint  with an updated `serverless.usage_limits` field.
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> The service account associated with the secret key must have the Cluster Administrator or Cluster Developer [role]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#organization-user-roles).

Reviewer 2: This phrasing is correct. The one on line 433 about ADMIN and EDIT are incorrect -- we recommend roles over permissions. I think line 433 can be removed and similar phrasing needs to be removed or updated throughout the file.

Author: Removed

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

The service account associated with the secret key must have `ADMIN` or `EDIT` [permission]({% link cockroachcloud/managing-access.md %}#manage-service-accounts) to retrieve information about an organization's clusters.

<div class="filters clearfix">
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="curl"><strong>curl</strong></button>
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="raw"><strong>Raw</strong></button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="curl">

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request PATCH \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/{cluster_id} \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}' \
  --data '{"usage_limits": {"provisioned_virtual_cpus": "{provisioned_virtual_cpus}"}}'
~~~

</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="raw">

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ json
{
  "usage_limits": {
    "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "{provisioned_virtual_cpus}"
  }
}
~~~

</section>

Where:

>   - `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.

Reviewer 2: If you take the suggestions above about switching to separating with a `:`, I suppose these should be kept in sync. I wonder if there is potential for reuse on the common ones (like cluster ID) by saving them into Liquid variables.

Author: saved as follow up task

Where:

- `{node_name}` is the name of the node.
- `{region_name}` is the cloud provider region where the cluster is located.
- `{status}` is the status of the node: `LIVE` or `NOT_READY`.

## Set or update resource limits for a Basic cluster

To specify the maximum RU or storage limits for a cluster, send a `PATCH` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}` endpoint with an updated `serverless.usage_limits` field.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The `spend_limit` field, which was deprecated in Serverless, is not supported on Basic or Standard. Instead, use `usage_limits`.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
The service account associated with the secret key must have the Cluster Administrator or Cluster Developer [role]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#organization-user-roles).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

<div class="filters clearfix">
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="curl"><strong>curl</strong></button>
    <button class="filter-button page-level" data-scope="raw"><strong>Raw</strong></button>
</div>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="curl">

> {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

Reviewer 3: This is the right place to show usage limits in use, rather than above.

Author: 👍

  The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).
  {{site.data.alerts.end}}
  - `{secret_key}` is the secret key for the service account.
  - `storage_mib_limit` is the maximum number of Mebibytes of storage that the cluster can have at any time during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is throttled, where only one SQL connection is allowed at a time, with the expectation that it is used to delete data to reduce storage usage. It is an error for this value to be zero.
  - `request_unit_limit` is the maximum number of request units that the cluster can consume during the month. If this limit is exceeded, then the cluster is disabled until the limit is increased, or until the beginning of the next month when more request units are granted. It is an error for this to be zero.

If the request was successful, the API returns the updated cluster details.

For details about returned fields, refer to the [response example and schema](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#patch-/api/v1/clusters/-cluster_id-) in the API reference.

> ## Change the number of provisioned vCPUs for a Standard cluster

Reviewer 3: This might be a good place to mention that the number of provisioned vCPUs can be increased any number of times, but can only be decreased up to 3 times per week.

Author: Done. Thanks.

  - `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.
  {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

>   The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).

Reviewer 2: This heading and following are actually missing the `raw` section. Another vote for taking it out everywhere.

Author: Saving this as a follow-up action

> {

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should show example output here.

Author: Swapped to a high level representation, instead, representing real output from my testing

```
{
  "clusters": [
    {<cluster_object1>},
    {<cluster_object2>},
    {<cluster_object3>}
  ],
  "pagination": null
}     
```

  "clusters": [
    {
      "account_id": "",
      "cloud_provider": "{cloud_provider}",
      "cockroach_version": "v23.2.4",
      "config": {
        "serverless": {
          "routing_id": "{routing_id}",
          "upgrade_type": "{upgrade_type}",
          "usage_limits": {
            "provisioned_virtual_cpus": "2"
          }
        }
      },
      "created_at": "2022-03-22T20:23:11.285067Z",
      "creator_id": "{account_id}",
      "id": "{cluster_id}",
      "name": "{cluster_name}",
      "operation_status": "UNSPECIFIED",
      "plan": "STANDARD",
      "regions": [
        {
          "internal_dns": "{internal_dns}",
          "name": "{region_name}",
          "node_count": 0,
          "private_endpoint_dns": "{private_endpoint_dns}",
          "sql_dns": "{server_host}",
          "ui_dns": ""
        }
      ],
      "state": "CREATED",
      "updated_at": "2022-03-22T20:23:11.879593Z",
      "upgrade_status": "UPGRADE_AVAILABLE"
    }
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "next_page": "<string>",
    "previous_page": "<string>"
  }
}
~~~

Where:

>   - `{cloud_provider}` is the name of the cloud infrastructure provider. Possible values are: `GCP`, `AWS`, `AZURE`.

Reviewer 2: If we must show the example output, we should not document every field in it as replaceable. I also notice here that we use angle brackets for some replaceable content, but the examples here all use curly braces.

Author: Dropping these, but adding a follow up task to standardize field definition format

  - `dedicated`, if present, represents configuration for a CockroachDB Advanced cluster.
  - `{account_id}` is the ID of the account that created the cluster. If the cluster was created using the API, this will be the service account ID associated with the secret key used when creating the cluster.
  - `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.
  {{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
  The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).
  {{site.data.alerts.end}}
  - `{cluster_name}` is the name of the cluster.
  -  {internal_dns} is the internal DNS name of the cluster within the cloud provider's network. It is used to connect to the cluster with AWS PrivateLink, Azure Private Link, and GCP VPC Peering, but not GCP Private Service Connect.
  - `{region_name}` is the zone code of the cloud infrastructure provider where the cluster is located.
  - `{private_endpoint_dns}` is the DNS name which is used to connect the cluster directly to a VPC within your Google Cloud project using GCP Private Service Connect.

> ## List the available regions for a cloud infrastructure provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## List the available regions for a cloud provider
```

> ## List all the SQL users in a cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## List the SQL users in a cluster
```

      "name": "{user name}"
    }

>   ],

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to show output.

Author: Refined instead

  "pagination": {
    "next_page": "{next_page_token}"
  }
}
~~~

Where:
- `{user name}` is the SQL username of the user.
- `{next_page_token}` is the token to use for retrieving the next page of results, if any.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
TODO - review: This endpoint returns paginated results. Use the `next_page` token in the response to fetch subsequent pages if available.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
TODO - review: The available regions may vary depending on the selected plan type (BASIC, STANDARD, or ADVANCED) and the cloud infrastructure provider.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> ## Create a new SQL user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a SQL user
```

> To create a new SQL user, send a `POST` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}/sql-users` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a SQL user, send a `POST` request to the `/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}/sql-users` endpoint.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this output.

Author: Streamlining and fixing braces instead of removing for now

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request DELETE \

>   --url 'https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/clusters/{cluster_id}/sql-users/{sql_username}' \

Reviewer 2: Nit: Poor alignment. I'd align `--url` with `--request`.

Author: Leaving for consistency with other examples for now

  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}'
~~~

Where:
- `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}
- `{sql_username}` is the username of the SQL user you want to delete.
- `{secret_key}` is the secret key for the service account.

If the request was successful, the client will receive a response with the name of the deleted user.

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to show the output.

Author: Refined like the others

Where `{sql_username}` is the username of the deleted SQL user.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}

> Deleting a SQL user is irreversible. Ensure that you want to permanently remove this user and all their associated permissions before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deleting a SQL user cannot be undone.
```

Where:
- `{cluster_id}` is the unique ID of this cluster.
{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> The cluster ID used in the Cloud API is different from the routing ID used when [connecting to clusters]({% link cockroachcloud/connect-to-your-cluster.md %}).

Reviewer 2: This is out of sync with similar text above about the cluster ID differing.

Author: I don't see the problem - can you please clarify?

Reviewer 2: I don't remember.
